Hi, I am ZJ. I'm a data scientist based in Melbourne. I want to talk about this package
called disk.frame. Have you ever encountered this message? Can I allocate vectors of size
whatever? So what is the issue here? Well, the issue is that R tries to load the whole
data into RAM, so it doesn't really fit sometimes. If your data is quite large, how do you deal
with that? In this talk, I'll talk about disk.frame, but Apache Spark, Vi, for example, Spark VR
is also possible. So how does disk.frame work? Well, disk.frame is very simple. It's just
a folder with many FST files. If you're not familiar with FST files, see this website.
Each file is called a chunk. And basically, if your data set is too large, I don't have
to load everything to memory. I just break that whole data set into smaller chunks and
load it chunk by chunk. Now, once I can load the data chunk by chunk, I can do many things.
For example, I can operate on the chunks in parallel. So how do you make use of disk.frame?
The first thing you want to do is load some data into the disk.frame format. So the disk.frame
package has this convenience function called CSV to disk.frame. You simply provide a path
to the CSV file, and it will convert that to a disk.frame. If you have multiple CSVs,
you can just pass it a list of CSVs or a vector of CSV paths. Well, I'm going to show you
a demo using 1.8 billion rows. So I've downloaded the Fannie Mae data set. So the first thing
you should do when you start a disk.frame is run this function called setup disk.frame.
This will set up parallel processing for you. As I mentioned before, I've created a folder
with many FST files in this directory. So I can show you the content of this directory.
As you can see, it's just a bunch of FST files. So to make use of these FST files, I just
call this function called disk.frame. And I'm going to put the head and tail, just like
a normal data frame. I can see things like the end row. So you can see there's 1.8 billion
rows in this data set. And the CSV unzipped would be about 200 gig in size. So there's
some more functions, number of columns, and the names of the columns. So you can operate
a disk.frame almost like as if you have a data frame. One of the key features of disk.frame
is that I've implemented the dplyr verbs. So you can make use of dplyr verbs directly
to manipulate the data. So I start with the disk.frame I created. I run this function
called source keep. And this is very important. This is actually what makes disk.frame fast.
So a source keep basically tells the program which columns to load into memory. Because
there's 31 columns. For this particular analysis, I only needed these four columns. So I only
need to load these four columns into RAM. So I just filter like you would normally do
with dplyr, do a mutate, and then group by year, which is created here, and do a summarize,
and finally collect. So let's run that. While that's running, I will show you what's happening
with the task manager. Most of the CPUs are being utilized. And that's because it's processing
all the chunks in that data set in parallel. Well, as you can see, I've done a group by
and created new columns. In the meantime, in about one minute, this was done on the
Fannie Mae data set with 1.8 billion rows. To learn more about disk.frame simply goes
to disk.frame.com. I'd like to finish off by pointing out a couple of things. If you
do have Spark, it's perfectly fine to use it. But not everyone's lucky enough to have
a Spark cluster set up. So disk.frame, you can use R functions directly, even those defined
by the user. Thank you.